Smart Meter Notifications Module:

The SmartMeter Notifications Module is a component for the the Bangor Hydro Electric's SmartMeter website that will allow site users to receive text message or email alerts to a cell phone or email address respectively.  These alerts can be generated by almost anything on the site, from goals that are near completion or overdue to major changes in electricity consumption or break even periods for electrical equipment.

Cost:
The current prototype of the notifications system utilizes a service called Twilio to act as a gateway between the code and the phone network.  This service allows the sending of text messages at a cost of 1¢ per text message.  There are possible alternatives that would be free, however these gateways are run by individual cell providers, so some user cell phones using alternative providers or services (example: Google Voice) would not be supported.  There may also be a send limit on this latter method of sending.  Free alternatives have not been researched yet, but can be.  Email notifications are handled by the website server, and will cost nothing extra.


Smart Meter Notifications Module (SMNotifier):

Overview:

The Smart Meter Notifications Module allows the sending of email and text message based notifications from within the Smart Meter site.  The SMNotifier API provides two commands: notify() and notifyMultiple().  notify() requires a user id for the
matching user in the Smart Meter database, a message (limited to 160 characters), and an optional subject line if an email is sent.  notifyMultiple() has the same parameters, however instead of an id, the function expects an array of ids.  Both
methods will find the user's preffered method of contact on file in the database, and dispatch emails and/or text messages as appropriate.

Configuration:

SMNotifier requires a valid Twilio.com account with a positive account balance for sending text messages.  The account id and authentication key must be placed in the variables file.

The table structure required must be set up in the Smart Meter site database.  The access information for the database must be placed in the variables file.

The sending script must be linked to a cron tab to send notifications.

There are optional email pre and post strings in the variables file which will be wrapped around all sent emails.  These can be used for email templates and should include a link to the user's settings to disable notifications.